PARENTALIA

she bestowed on me all that she could out of her
slender funds.

'¹⁷ Therefore I now call you to remembrance as a
mother and utter the sad cry, “Hail and fare-
well.''

XXVIL——JUmA VENEfflA, MY PATERNAL AUNT

Mv aunt Veneria also died an early death, and to
her Ι now chant these short, measured lines. May
her poor ashes rest in peace and repose from toil,

{jndbSWist be her passage to the silent realms of
re us.

XXVIII.——JUL1A IDALIA, My Cous1N

L1TTLE Idalia, too, is gone, who received the title
of the Paphian queen, and herself won Venus’
beauty3 who by birth was well-nigh my sister.
For this was the child of my aunt, whom my dirge
now honours with the loving homage of a mournful
strain.

XXIX.—AEM1L1A MELANIA, Μγ SlsTER

THoUGH Ι scarce knew you, Aemilia, my sister, re-
ceive this lament which my sad strains owe to your
ashes. When we were infants almost of one age we
shared one cradle, though you were the elder by one
year. But Lachesis, too jealous, hurried on your
final hour and sent you to the shades—an untimely
death. Since, therefore, you are gone before me,
take my farewell and do honour to our parents'
shades—his who in riper, and hers who in earlier
years is come to rejoin you.

93

