THE TECHNOPAEGNION

as Ops; then, brother of J ove and Consus, Tartarean
Dis, her brother's sister and his wife, the queen of
'che gods, Miglzt, and he who rides in 3 four-horse
ehario'c, ’che old Suu, and he who wakens war‘s fierce
tumult—the warrior Bffars, by love of kindred never
roused nor by kind Pence. Thou also shalt be named,
thou haunter of the woods‚ Maenahan Pan3 and thou,
the genius of our homes, born of Larunda) Lar3 and
thou, eminent above the streams of Italy, sulphureous
Nar ;2 and thou who dost punish the gods for pe1·jury‚3
night-dark Βέρρῃ the 63111161· 3150 of the sea whereon
53115 flit, white-backed Libs34 and thou, who never
leav’st poor man in trouble, kindly Hope. ¹

IX.—-ON ARTmOEs OF Foon

I WILL tell also of our articles of food, as fixed by
ancient use, to which for relish we add sea—born salt.
Of old food for beast and man alike was furnished
by ’che Oak? 616 that in fields there was store of
whea'cen ears. Next· came spelt, and from spelf,
pottage-making mal, 'chat ’mid the sons of Romulus
furnishes the tables of the common-folle. Thereafter,
food and drink both (when mixed with water), pulse.
Another fruit, no less hot than pepper, 15 'che cori-
ander-pz'p³ and, grown from Pelusian seed, the smooth‚
round lentil-becm,6 and five kinds, shielded by double

with Juturna : hence she was worshipped ab Rome under the
name of Tacita or Muta. To Mereury 5116 bare ‘ohe Lares.

2 The Nera, a tributary of the Tiber.

³ cp. Hesiod, Theoq. 775 ff.

4 = Λίψ, the “ Libyan '' or S.W. wind.

⁵ See Hesiod, W. and D. ⁶233.

‘³ cp. virgil, Geory. i. 228.

297

